why keyword research is vital for your
seo success
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out our weekly
email where i'm sharing actionable web
and marketing tips useful podcasts free
resources and much much more each and
every monday so you can start your week
off with a bang give it a try over at
business growth dot email so when it
comes to seo many companies want to get
stuck straight into things like creating
content creating articles distributing
them onto industry relevant sites and
building up juicy backlinks in the hope
that it's going to push up their
websites organic rankings
ramp up their traffic and ramp up their
sales leads their revenue their brand
visibility or whatever they want to get
out of the seo the search engine
optimization campaign to increase their
organic rankings on google however
without a solid keyword strategy focused
around the main search terms you
actually want to drive traffic for so
maybe it's around your main product your
main services main locations you serve
or whatever it may be without that in
place first your results could be
hindered
so what i'm going to share today is how
you can consider different parts of
keyword research from thinking about
people at the top of their journey at
the start of their journey top of the
sales funnel right through to the bottom
of the sales funnel for people ready to
search for what you do and needing your
help right here right now so let's jump
straight into it so first off let's talk
about some of the tools that you can use
to help when it comes to seo keyword
research so you can use things like
ahrefs
sem rush
google keyword planner or neil patel's
tool ubersuggest why would you want to
use these well these are great tools for
looking into things like
how much traffic each search term each
keyword gets so you can literally type
in a keyword into that and it will tell
you how much monthly traffic it gets in
us uk eu worldwide whatever country you
want to look into you can also do
competitor research so you can look into
what search terms your competitors are
ranking for what they're targeting and
work out if certain keywords perhaps are
even too competitive or if there's gaps
niches little ways in that you can tap
into to make your seo campaign a success
and you can also realize where your
website stands right now so tools like
semrush ahrefs will tell your current
domain authority
so how well recognized your site is on
google it'll tell you how many backlinks
you've got right now and it'll also tell
you the main search terms that are
driving the percentages of your traffic
to your site right now so you can know
areas that are doing well and areas that
might need improvement so consider using
these tools the only thing i would say
is that keyword traffic isn't the be-all
end-all because some search terms that
we'll talk about shortly
they might just be for people that are
looking up queries that don't
necessarily have that intent to buy or
sometimes very very specific what we
call long tail keywords can be great to
talk about and target as well so we'll
jump into that now so i'm going to talk
about the three different levels of
consideration that you need to look into
when it comes to seo keyword research
first and foremost we've got top of the
sales funnel so this is typically for
someone that's not ready to buy your
stuff right now they're at the early
research or consideration stages
so to give you an actual example but web
choice those might be web development
how to find the best web design company
what to consider when building a lead
generation website how to build a mobile
first design all these different things
that people will look up to get ideas
inspiration or even try and do it
themselves
so one good way to come up with these
kind of search terms is to actually
think about are there questions i get
asked on sales tools are there things
that current customers ask me a lot do i
get these queries on social media or
other platforms i'm on from prospects
from customers and then create content
on your site articles blog posts
information pages videos all that good
stuff to answer these questions and you
can consider targeting a few of these
in your keyword strategy and the reason
it's good is because over time it's
going to position you as an authority
because if you're constantly showing up
on google for answering these questions
being a useful resource to prospects
it'll build trust and if they are
checking out articles on your website
around these topics if they find you on
page one click through to your site they
might sign up to your email list they
might carry on reading other pages on
your site they might download a lead
magnet or a guide or a video or they
might even refer friends to you that
need your help or when they are ready
they might get in touch and become a
sales lead next up we've got the middle
of the funnel searches so this is quite
often for people that are comparing
options
so let's say you're an accounting
software provider they might be
searching things like xero versus
quickbooks or in our case they might be
searching things like diy website
builder versus agency or do seo yourself
versus hiring company these kind of
things where people have realized that
they probably need the offering but
they're not yet ready to commit they
want to do that little bit more research
they're about halfway there perhaps
they're comparing companies perhaps
they're comparing do it themselves so
you can think about again what are
common competitors that come up in sales
conversations what are things people
often bring up on sales calls and then
once you've thought about those search
terms you've researched them with the
tools we've talked about then creating
that content on your site the articles
the information pages the podcasts the
videos the infographics that can go on
your site to address these points and
tackle those objections and again the
reason it's useful is because it can
help people on their buying journey give
them the assurance they need answer
those questions and then position
yourself as the right offering for what
they need and lastly we've got keywords
for people at the bottom of the sales
funnel so typically people that are
ready to speak to sales that have high
intent to buy
what you do so based on the fact you
appear page one towards the top of
organic search results on google you
have a good chance to get the lead or
get the sale from this prospect on the
basis that your website can actually
attract them build trust with them and
then convert them so this to give you
some examples for web choice we've got
web development company organic page one
results in the uk right now so this
gives us quite a steady flow of
inquiries but if you're an accountancy
software provider maybe you'll rank
things like best accountancy software or
best accountancy software for small
business or if you're a cm provider
maybe you're looking for things like
small business crm provider or best crm
company so when someone types this in
rather than just typing what we talked
about before web development or
crm they'd probably just want to learn
more find out tips find out tricks about
the practice but when they add that
extra query into the search term making
a bit more what's called longer tell so
best accountancy company or web
development company or small business
crm company that little bit shows
they've got the intent shows they
actually need the help of your offering
of your service
so really think about those high buying
intent bottom of the sales funnel
searches for your company use those
tools we've talked about to find out
what search data they get how much
traffic they drive
and i probably place most emphasis on
this part of your keyword research
because ultimately you want to drive
sales qualified leads or you want to
drive revenue if you're e-commerce so
it's going to be a big chunk a big piece
of the puzzle not to neglect the top of
funnel and middle of funnel as they'll
still come into play they're great for
building brand awareness building brand
loyalty building reputation over time
and getting those referrals but remember
that the buying intent is going to be a
big piece of the puzzle so when it comes
to your strategy make sure you've got
plenty of those search terms
that are going to help you rank over
time now the thing to consider is that
top of the funnel searches
quite often you'll be able to rank
reasonably quick for perhaps a few
months depending on how competitive the
query is
middle of the funnel might be somewhere
in between depending on again how
competitive the search term is quite
often bottom of the funnel searches
are competitive unless you're in an
industry perhaps you're serving a local
area perhaps your niche doesn't have
many competitors but quite often if
you're a national or worldwide business
this is what a lot of your competitors
will be looking at so again use these
keyword research tools to see if there's
any gaps any areas that you can pinpoint
that perhaps your competitors aren't
doing right now that you know that
people have told you that they're
searching for and then go at them and
start driving that qualified high buying
intent traffic to your site and then
once you've finalized your list of
target keywords then you can move on to
the next step so typically that's
on-site or on-page seo things like doing
a technical audit of your site and a
content audio site so technical things
are making sure your page speed is nice
and quick under two seconds or close to
one second making sure your website
works smoothly on mobile pc making sure
you've got things like information pages
for the relevant search terms so someone
searches something they're getting
served up content that's relevant to
them not just sending everyone to your
home page but giving them
really quality content answers their
questions objections gives them useful
bits of information like videos
infographics useful data points question
and answers so it's going to help them
on their journey building that trust and
then pointing them to conversion with
clear call to actions guiding them to
book that demo get in touch or make the
purchase so making sure on-page
technical side of things metadata page
headings structure all that is in place
and also the content side of things
lines up with those search terms and
giving a great user experience answering
people's questions and all that good
points
and once you've nailed the onset seo
then you can move on to what we've
talked about at the very start
building up content building up articles
distributing them on industry relevant
sites and building up quality backlinks
and now you've got a clear strategy you
know the keywords you want to rank for
everything can be in line with those
rather than doing random stuff it can be
focused on the search terms that are
actually going to drive revenue
build up your web traffic build up
inbound leads and build up your company
growth and there we go i hope this
summary of keyword research has been
helpful if you're on youtube hitting
that subscribe button is really
appreciated or if you're on the audio
podcast a quick rating or review
i'd be really thankful for
and with that i shall catch you on the
next episode
cheers